In September of 2020, Medican Janos, a rare Mediterranean cyclone, struck Greece and flooded
a Roma settlement in Maverica, just outside the city of Cardezza.
Local authorities worked alongside emergency services to evacuate over 1,000 Roma who lived
there, but a family of seven who are studying with Jehovah's Witnesses were left behind.
It was raining hard and the floodwaters were rising quickly.
I took my wife by the hand and carried my child on my back.
With great difficulty, we managed to make it to a neighbouring house.
We were unable to contact the authorities.
We were terrified and had no option but to stay there.
We didn't know what to do.
We were so scared and worried.
We had never experienced anything like this before.
The floodwaters had risen a lot and we stood waiting for hours.
I asked my father to pray for us.
He did, many times.
There were lots of people in the house, both young and old.
They were afraid and they were crying.
Video messages from the family started to come through asking for help.
We could see their fear.
We wanted to help them, but there was no way for us to go there because access was impossible.
All we could do was pray to Jehovah for them and send messages of encouragement.
We were very distressed.
Children were crying.
I prayed to Jehovah begging him for peace of mind.
I threw all my burdens and anxiety up my heart on Jehovah.
Soon I felt calm and had no anxiety.
I felt his spirit giving me strength during the hours that followed until dawn.
The situation was very difficult.
They had suffered a lot and their clothes were dirty.
There was no way that I could leave them there.
We were given a house to staying.
We were able to calm down and sleep.
The brothers gave us food.
I thanked Jehovah for teaching us and taking care of us.
He is our savior.
When I attended the first meeting after the flood, I felt calm again.
I tried to keep my routine as normal.
Study, meetings, preparing comments, I felt joy and contentment.
My legal documents such as my ID were safe on the flood.
Our neighbours were not prepared, but we, thanks to Jehovah's direction, had packed emergency bags.
About a week later, we were able to return to America.
The houses were in a terrible condition, full of mud.
The disaster relief committee helped us immediately.
Brothers from 300 kilometres away sent emergency supplies.
The brotherhood showed us love in practice.
They worked hard and helped us because they love us.
I was deeply touched and found myself in awe.
We are united.
All of this brought glory and praise to Jehovah.
When we went there to help, the Roma neighbours were very surprised.
They asked if we could help them too.
We replied that we have to help our family first, our brothers.
They were very puzzled that we called our Roma brothers family
since we were not from their tribe.
Ephesians 416 finds a good application in this story.
Just as every joint in the body offers help.
So did the brothers.
We all work together to provide help to our brothers in need.
Jehovah's teaching me and helping me.
I really trust in him.
He has blessed me personally.
I've seen how good he is to me.
In a miserable world, Jehovah brings me joy.
I know that he chooses according to a person's heart.
All glory belongs to Jehovah.